The President:
The historic movement
to bring real,
meaningful health insurance
reform to the American people
gathered momentum this week as
we approach the final days of
this debate.
Having worked on this issue
for the better part of a year,
the Senate Finance Committee is
finishing deliberations on their
version of a health insurance
reform bill that will soon be
merged with other reform bills
produced by other Congressional committees.
After evaluating the
Finance Committee's bill,
the Congressional
Budget Office --
an office that
provides independent,
nonpartisan analysis -- concluded that the legislation
would make coverage affordable for millions of Americans who
don't have it today.
It will bring greater security
to Americans who have coverage,
with new insurance protections.
And, by attacking waste and
fraud within the system,
it will slow the growth
in health care costs,
without adding a
dime to our deficits.
This is another milestone
on what's been a long,
hard road towards health
insurance reform.
In recent months, we've heard
every side of every argument
from both sides of the aisle.
And rightly so -- health insurance reform is a complex
and critical issue that deserves a vigorous national debate,
and we've had one.
The approach that is emerging
includes the best ideas from
Republicans and Democrats, and
people across the political spectrum.
In fact, what's remarkable is
not that we've had a spirited
debate about health
insurance reform,
but the unprecedented consensus
that has come together behind it.
This consensus encompasses
everyone from doctors and nurses
to hospitals and
drug manufacturers.
And earlier this week, Governor
Arnold Schwarzenegger of
California and New York City
Mayor Michael Bloomberg came out
in support of reform, joining
two former Republican Senate
Majority Leaders: Bob
Dole and Dr. Bill Frist,
himself a cardiac surgeon.
Dr. Louis Sullivan, Secretary of
Health and Human Services under
President George H.W.
Bush, supports reform.
As does Republican
Tommy Thompson,
a former Wisconsin governor and
Secretary of Health and Human
Services under President
George W. Bush.
These distinguished leaders
understand that health insurance
reform isn't a Democratic
issue or a Republican issue,
but an American issue
that demands a solution.
Still, there are some in
Washington today who seem
determined to play the
same old partisan politics,
working to score
political points,
even if it means burdening this
country with an unsustainable
status quo.
A status quo of rising health
care costs that are crushing our
families, our businesses,
and our government.
A status quo of diminishing
coverage that's denying
millions of hardworking
Americans the insurance they need.
A status quo that gives big
insurance companies the power to
make arbitrary decisions
about your health care.
That's a status quo I reject.
And that's a status quo
the American people reject.
The distinguished former
Congressional leaders who urged
us to act on health insurance
reform spoke of the historic
moment at hand and reminded us
that this moment will not soon
come again.
They called on members of
both parties to seize this
opportunity to finally confront a problem that has plagued us
for far too long.
That is what we are called
to do at this moment.
That is the spirit of national
purpose that we must summon right now.
Now's the time to rise above
the politics of the moment.
Now's the time to come
together as Americans.
Now's the time to meet our
responsibilities to ourselves
and to our children,
and secure a better,
healthier future for
generations to come.
That future is within our grasp.
So, let's go finish the job.
Thanks.